# API Reference

The `ADS7138` class enables Arduino devices to communicate with the ADS7138 Analog to Digital Converter (ADC) from Texas Instruments.

## Class: `ADS7138`

Include and instantiate the ADS7138 class.

## Method: `begin`

This function initializes the I2C communication with the ADS7138 device using Wire.

```c
void begin(int sda, int scl, int deviceAddress)
```

- `int sda`: The pin for SDA.
- `int scl`: The pin for SCL.
- `int deviceAddress`: The 7-bit I2C address of the ADS7138.

## Method: `setReferenceVoltage`

Sets the ADC voltage reference in mV.

```c
void setReferenceVoltage(uint32_t reference)
```

- `uint32_t reference`: The ADC reference voltage in mV.

## Method: `writeRegister8`

Initiates an I2C transmission to the ADS7138 device, writing the register address and the provided 8-bit value. The transmission is then terminated.

```c
void writeRegister8(uint8_t registerAddress, uint8_t value)
```

- `uint8_t registerAddress`: The address of the register in the ADS7138 device to write to.
- `uint8_t value`: The 8-bit value to be written to the specified register.

## Method: `configureOpMode`

Configures the `OPMODE_CFG` register of the ADC. Always sets `CLK_DIV` field to zero.

```c
void configureOpMode(ADS7138__OSC_SEL oscSel, ADS7138__CONV_MODE convMode, ADS7138__CONV_ON_ERR convOnErr)
```

- `ADS7138__OSC_SEL oscSel`: Selects the oscillator for internal timing generation.
- `ADS7138__CONV_MODE convMode`: These bits set the mode of conversion of the ADC.
- `ADS7138__CONV_ON_ERR convOnErr`: Control continuation of autonomous and turbo comparator modes if CRC error is detected on communication interface.

## Method: `configureSequenceMode`

Configures the SEQUENCE_CFG register of the ADC.

```c
void configureSequenceMode(ADS7138__SEQ_MODE seqMode, ADS7138__SEQ_START seqStart)
```

- `ADS7138__SEQ_MODE seqMode` : Selects the mode of scanning of analog input channels.
- `ADS7138__SEQ_START seqStart` : Control for start of channel sequence when using auto sequence mode.

## Method: `configureOsr`

Configures the oversampling ratio of the programmable averaging filter in the ADC.

```c
void configureOsr(ADS7138__OSR osr)
```

- `ADS7138__OSR osr`: The oversampling ratio value for the average filter.

## Method: `selectChannel`

When in manual mode, this command selects the channel that the user wishes to read.

- `ADS7138__MANUAL_CHID channel`: The channel to select.

## Method: `read`

Reads the currently selected channel.

```c
uint16_t read()
```

## Method: `readChannel`

Manually selects and reads a channel.

```c
uint16_t readChannel(ADS7138__MANUAL_CHID channel)
```

## Method: `readVoltage`

Reads the currently selected channel in millivolts.

```c
uint16_t readVoltage()
```

## Method: `readChannelVoltage`

Manually selects and reads a channel's voltage in millivolts.

```c
uint16_t readChannelVoltage(ADS7138__MANUAL_CHID channel)
```